Data Abstraction is a process of hiding unwanted or irrelevant details from the end user. It provides a different view and 
helps in achieving data independence which is used to enhance the security of data.

The database systems consist of complicated data structures and relations. For users to access the data easily, 
these complications are kept hidden, and only the relevant part of the database is made accessible to the users through data abstraction.

Levels of abstraction for DBMS

Database systems include complex data-structures. In terms of retrieval of data, reduce complexity in terms of usability of 
users and in order to make the system efficient, developers use levels of abstraction that hide irrelevant details from the users. 
Levels of abstraction simplify database design.

Mainly there are three levels of abstraction for DBMS, which are as follows −

Physical or Internal Level
Logical or Conceptual Level
View or External Level


1. Physical or Internal Level

It is the lowest level of abstraction for DBMS which defines how the data is actually stored, it defines data-structures 
to store data and access methods used by the database. Actually, it is decided by developers or database application 
programmers how to store the data in the database.

So, overall, the entire database is described in this level that is physical or internal level. 
It is a very complex level to understand. For example, customer's information is stored in tables and data is stored in the 
form of blocks of storage such as bytes, gigabytes etc.

2. Logical or Conceptual Level

Logical level is the intermediate level or next higher level. 
It describes what data is stored in the database and what relationship exists among those data.
It tries to describe the entire or whole data because it describes what tables to be created and what are the links among 
those tables that are created.

It is less complex than the physical level. Logical level is used by developers or database administrators (DBA). 
So, overall, the logical level contains tables (fields and attributes) and relationships among table attributes.

3. View or External Level


It is the highest level. In view level, there are different levels of views and every view only defines a part of the entire data.
It also simplifies interaction with the user and it provides many views or multiple views of the same database.

View level can be used by all users (all levels' users). This level is the least complex and easy to understand.

For example, a user can interact with a system using GUI that is view level and can enter details at GUI or 
screen and the user does not know how data is stored and what data is stored, this detail is hidden from the user.
