The Data Model is defined as an abstract model that organizes data description, data semantics, and consistency constraints of data. 
The data model emphasizes on what data is needed and how it should be organized instead of what operations will be performed on data.
Data Model is like an architect’s building plan, which helps to build conceptual models and set a relationship between data items.

The two types of Data Modeling Techniques are

Entity Relationship (E-R) Model
UML (Unified Modelling Language)

Types of Data Models
Types of Data Models: There are mainly three different types of data models: conceptual data models, logical data models, and physical
data models, and each one has a specific purpose. The data models are used to represent the data and how it is stored 
in the database and to set the relationship between data items.

Conceptual Data Model: This Data Model defines WHAT the system contains. 
This model is typically created by Business stakeholders and Data Architects. 
The purpose is to organize, scope and define business concepts and rules.

Logical Data Model: Defines HOW the system should be implemented regardless of the DBMS. 
This model is typically created by Data Architects and Business Analysts. The purpose is to developed technical map of rules 
and data structures.

Physical Data Model: This Data Model describes HOW the system will be implemented using a specific DBMS system. 
This model is typically created by DBA and developers. The purpose is actual implementation of the database.



Advantages and Disadvantages of Data Model:

Advantages of Data model:

The main goal of a designing data model is to make certain that data objects offered by the functional team are represented accurately.
The data model should be detailed enough to be used for building the physical database.
The information in the data model can be used for defining the relationship between tables, primary and foreign keys, and stored procedures.
Data Model helps business to communicate the within and across organizations.
Data model helps to documents data mappings in ETL process
Help to recognize correct sources of data to populate the model.


Disadvantages of Data model:

To develop Data model one should know physical data stored characteristics.
This is a navigational system produces complex application development, management. Thus, it requires a knowledge of the biographical truth.
Even smaller change made in structure require modification in the entire application.
There is no set data manipulation language in DBMS.
