Entity Relationship Model(ER model)

Entity-Relationship (ER) model is a visual representation of the table’s structure and the relationships between logically related tables.

 In ER modeling the database structure is represented as a diagram known as ER diagram (ERD).
 An ER diagram gives a better understanding of the overall database structure. 
 It becomes easier to map the tables, their keys, and relationships.

The ER diagram displays:

Table structure along with the column names and their data types
Primary and foreign key constraints
Relationship between tables

Following are the main components and its symbols in ER Diagrams:

Rectangles: This Entity Relationship Diagram symbol represents entity types
Ellipses : Symbol represent attributes
Diamonds: This symbol represents relationship types
Lines: It links attributes to entity types and entity types with other relationship types
Primary key: attributes are underlined
Double Ellipses: Represent multi-valued attributes


Components of the ER Diagram: (**** Refer to read me file for image ***)

Entities
Attributes
Relationships


WHAT IS ENTITY?
A real-world thing either living or non-living that is easily recognizable and nonrecognizable. 
It is anything in the enterprise that is to be represented in our database. 
It may be a physical thing or simply a fact about the enterprise or an event that happens in the real world.

An entity can be place, person, object, event or a concept, which stores data in the database. T
he characteristics of entities are must have an attribute, and a unique key. Every entity is made up of some ‘attributes’ 
which represent that entity.

Examples of entities:

Person: Employee, Student, Patient
Place: Store, Building
Object: Machine, product, and Car
Event: Sale, Registration, Renewal
Concept: Account, Course
Notation of an Entity

Entity set:

Student

An entity set is a group of similar kind of entities. It may contain entities with attribute sharing similar values.
Entities are represented by their properties, which also called attributes. All attributes have their separate values.
For example, a student entity may have a name, age, class, as attributes.

Relationship
Relationship is nothing but an association among two or more entities. E.g., Ashna works in the Chemistry department.

Attributes

It is a single-valued property of either an entity-type or a relationship-type.
For example, a lecture might have attributes: time, date, duration, place, etc.
An attribute in ER Diagram examples, is represented by an Ellipse
